Combine your scores for the preceding statements as indicated below.

Dysfunction I:
Absence of
Trust

Dysfunction 2:
Fear of Conflict

Scoring

Dysfunction 3:
Lack of
Commitment

Dysfunction 4:
Avoidance of
Accountability

Dysfunction 5:
Inattention to
Results

Statement 4:
Statement 6:

Statement 12:

Statement I:
Statement 7:

Statement 10:

Statement 3:
Statement 8:

Statement 13:

Statement 2:
Statement II:

Statement 14:

Statement 5:
Statement 9:

Statement 15:

Total:

Total:

Total:

Total:

Total:

A score of 8 or 9 is a probable indication that the dysfunction is not a problem for your

team.

A score of 6 or 7 indicates that the dysfunction could be a problem.
A score of 3 to 5 is probably an indication that the dysfunction needs to be addressed.

Regardless of your scores, it is important to keep in mind that every team needs
constant work, because without it, even the best ones deviate toward dysfunction.

From “The Five Dysfunctions of a Team” by Patrick Lencioni, Jossey-Bass Publishing, 2002
Team Assessment

Instructions: Use the scale below to indicate how each statement applies to your team.
It is important to evaluate the statements honestly and without over-thinking your
answers.

From

3 = Usually
2 = Sometimes
1 = Rarely

1. Team members are passionate and unguarded in their discussion of issues.
2. Team members call out one another's deficiencies or unproductive behaviors.

3. Team members know what their peers are working on and how they contribute
to the collective good of the team.

4. Team members quickly and genuinely apologize to one another when they say
or do something inappropriate or possibly damaging to the team.

5. Team members willingly make sacrifices (such as budget, turf, head count) in
their departments or areas of expertise for the good of the team.

6. Team members openly admit their weaknesses and mistakes.
7. Team meetings are compelling, and not boring.

8. Team members leave meetings confident that their peers are completely
committed to the decisions that were agreed on, even if there was initial
disagreement.

9. Morale is significantly affected by the failure to achieve team goals.

10. During team meetings, the most important and difficult issues are put on the
table to be resolved.

11. Team members are deeply concerned about the prospect of letting down
their peers.

12. Team members know about one another's personalities and are comfortable
discussing them.

13. Team members end discussions with clear and specific resolutions and calls
to action.

14. Team members challenge one another about their plans and approaches.

15. Team members are slow to seek credit for their own contributions, but quick
to point out those of others.

“The Five Dysfunctions of a Team” by Patrick Lencioni, Jossey-Bass Publishing, 2002
