Brandon Schmersal
Portfolio Entry 1: Skills and Tools
SWENG 505: Software Project Mgmt

Fall 1 2023

In my current role, | operate within a traditional organizational structure as a "Staff" member. However,
| have participated in projects with a matrix-style organization. My experience with this structure was a
positive one, and one of the benefits of the matrix style is it feels less autocratic when juxtaposed with
the traditional organization style. It feels less autocratic because performance reviews and project
management are shared between individuals. However, the nature of the siloed teams can lead to
disjointed communication and execution. The traditional style allows for much more cohesion and, in

turn, creates a more autocratic relationship.

Organizations | have worked at have exposed me to Microsoft Project, Jira, Trello, Asana, and Service
Now. | have considered using Jira personally but have yet to pursue that. | have primarily used Trello to
manage my projects or keep virtual notes and lists. Kanban boards are a fantastic way to organize
activities visually. | have exposure to Lean philosophies in various capacities at previous organizations.
After reviewing this week's previous coursework regarding Deming's 14 points, | connected Deming's

work and Toyota's Lean. | hold a white belt in Lean Six Sigma and hope to pursue more.

Between my experience as a Retail Supervisor and Floor Manager at a print shop, | have a decent
amount of exposure to non-software project management. My experience working as a retail supervisor
was primarily checking in on team members and assigning work to them. However, most of my project
management and leadership experience is from working at a screen-printing shop. | worked my way into

a "Floor Manager" position at the screen-printing shop. This position had a variety of responsibilities,
including working with apparel suppliers, collaborating on expectations with clients, estimating time and

cost, and communicating expectations to the team to foster success.

Regarding software-related teams, | have not led any as a project manager. | have not professionally
developed any project plans or attempted to estimate a software project's time and cost. However,
thanks to previous coursework here at Penn State, | have a little experience with project estimation with
tools like COCOMO. | have also used tools like AWS's cost estimator to help determine operational costs

of deployment.
